Previously on "The 100"...
There are
consequences, bell.
Lincoln is dead.
We bring you chancellor pike
of the sky people.
Where are you
taking him?
To the new
commander.
May I join you?
Luna, we're on our way.
Nightblood.
Luna has it.
That's why we
have to find her.
If she can
access Alie 2--
then she can tell us
how to stop Alie 1.
Jaha is using the chips
to control everyone.
The more minds
turned to the task,
the more powerful
Alie becomes.
Now that Arkadia
has fallen,
we'll move on to stage two.
What we're doing
is too important,
and we won't be done
until everyone is with us.
About what
I expected.
Shut your mouth.
Hey...
We should leave.
Think you're
gonna find peace
with the new
commander?
Go on. Move.
Chancellors.
Jackson?
What the hell
are you doing here?
Those aren't
necessary.
This man belongs
to the commander.
It's all right,
Jackson.
Mm.
Thelonious,
what is this?
This is the chip.
I thought you were crazy.
Now I know you are.
This is unity,
like you always wanted.
Everyone back away,
or the commander dies.
Thank God. Briggs,
grant, get behind me.
Uh!
Huh huh huh! Rrgh!
Uh! Briggs!
You're farm station. Rrgh!
There are no
stations here,
just the
city of light.
Join us,
Charles, please.
There's no more need
for fighting.
We both know
there's no way in hell
I'm taking that thing.
Sorry it has
to be this way.
No! Uh!
Uh! Uh! No.
How about you,
Marcus?
We need him.
He can help us
find Clarke
and the other a.I.
That was a mistake.
I don't think so.
You will.
Oh! Let me go!
We are still experiencing
a 3% rejection rate.
Don't put Marcus
with the others.
Leave him to me.
She can be
persuasive.
Chancellor,
Dr. Griffin.
Thank you for
coming, Charles.
I didn't know
I had a choice.
So what is
all this?
What I'm about
to tell you
is classified.
If you tell anyone
any part of it--
I'll be floated.
I understand.
Good.
I need you to teach
a crash course
in wilderness
survival--
farming, hunting,
building shelters.
To the prisoners?
Yes.
Well, can I ask why?
We're sending them
to the ground.
We have 99
prisoners here.
We've divided
them into small,
more manageable
groups.
They'll be dead
the moment the door opens.
The ground
won't be survivable
for another hundred
years or more.
What did you find?
Tell me.
We're only
telling you
what you need
to know, Charles,
nothing more.
Your daughter's
in the sky box.
It must be pretty
compelling evidence
of survivability
if you're willing
to risk her life.
Clarke's in solitary.
You won't
be seeing her.
That's OK.
She paid attention
the first time.
Look. I've--I've taught
most of these kids already
or--or tried to.
They're not exactly
receptive learners,
though I suppose
they will be now.
They don't know
they're going.
And if you
tell them--
I'll be floated.
Got that.
Think of it
this way.
You finally get
to teach earth skills
to kids who might
actually use them.
Admittedly, it's--
it's a leap
of faith, Charles.
Take it with us.
I can have them
ready in 4 months,
3 if I--
they leave
in two weeks.
Ha ha! Uh...
When do I start?
Let's go.
Take a seat.
OK. Come on.
OK. Keep moving.
Oh...
It's the girl
under the floor.
Welcome to earth skills.
It's been an hour since
we passed the airplane wreckage.
Seeing as we're using a map
without any distances,
it could be days before
we reach Luna's village.
At least we know
we're going
the right direction.
We're running
out of daylight.
We should stop in the sun,
recharge the battery.
What sun? We keep
going until it dies.
We keep going until
we get to Luna.
This her?
Yes.
What do you think
she's gonna say
when we show up asking
to put an a.I. In her head?
Lincoln
said she helps
those that are
in trouble.
She'll help us, too.
Think she can help us
find a better map?
Backtrack.
We'll find somewhere where
the trees aren't so bad.
Hey! Ohh...
Guess we're
going on foot.
Anyone hear the part
where I said it could be days?
Stop.
You hear that?
Water.
Eyes sharp. They
could be hostile.
They're not hostile.
Put the guns down.
Where's the village?
No.
Oh, no. It can't be.
Isn't a village. It's
just a bunch of rocks.
She's gone.
What do we do now?
The ability to make fire
kept the human race alive
during the ice age.
There we go.
Here we go.
Yeah.
Who knows?
It may do the same
for us someday.
Ahh...Voila--
the difference
between life and death.
Thank you,
Mr. Murphy.
Perhaps you'd
like to tell us
the key to surviving
on the ground.
No, not really.
No.
Ms. Blake,
how about you?
The key to survival
on earth, what is it?
Not dying?
You can laugh all you want,
but we've got
a lot to learn here--
making fire, tying knots,
how to navigate using the stars,
how to hunt.
You have to learn which plants
you can eat and which--
which ones
we can smoke?
Mr. Jordan,
that is precisely why
we had to separate you
and Mr. green.
Listen. The answer
to my question.
The key to surviving
on the ground and on the ark
is to keep fighting
at all costs
against all odds.
The minute you give up,
you're dead.
Am I boring you,
Mr. Murphy?
I'll survive.
Uh uh...Uh!
Uh! Uh...
Uh...Uh!
Uh! Hey, you want
to kill me, kill me!
Uh...Ah! Ugh!
Uh! Uh!
Briggs, you don't
have to do this.
You're strong!
Fight it!
We'll get our people
and get out of here.
Briggs! Uh!
Who's ready
to take the key?
Ohh...
Uh!
What are the odds?
John Murphy?
Told you
I'd survive.
You should have
killed me on that battlefield.
I won't make
the same mistake.
You killed 300
of my people.
Now you'll take
300 cuts
by my hand.
Get on with it.
Hnngh! Ohh...
Hnngh!
Uhh!
Rrgh! Ugh!
Uh...
Aah!
It'll be dark soon.
We need to talk about
what we're gonna do.
We wait until
first light,
and then we split up
and search the shore
in both directions
heh. Ah...
Nice.
Yes.
I agree.
Lincoln wouldn't
have put this spot
on the map
unless it was important.
Don't touch that.
Come on, o.
How long?
I don't know.
I can't even
look at you...
Because every
time I do,
I see pike putting that
gun to Lincoln's head.
I hear the gunshot.
I see him fall.
I didn't kill Lincoln.
No, but he is dead
because of you.
I came to you.
You didn't
take my help.
If you had just
trusted me, I--
What did you
just do?
Nothing. I just threw
these in the fire.
What is it?
Huh. Signal fire.
He was trying
to tell us.
This is how
we contact Luna.
I'll get more.
Uh!
Abby.
Marcus,
oh, thank God.
Are you all right?
Did they hurt you?
They found me hiding
in the woods near the camp.
Please tell me you
know where Clarke is.
No. I thought
she was here.
He's telling
the truth.
No. I saw them
shoot at her.
She got in the rover
with Jasper,
and they got away,
I'm--I'm sure.
Well, that's good.
If the others
found her,
that means
she's safe.
Listen to me.
They're after Clarke.
How do you know
they're after her?
They questioned me
for hours.
She has something
that they want.
What? What?
I don't know.
We don't have
time for this.
If Ontari is right
and Clarke finds
another nightblood,
she'll be able to
activate the other a.I.
We can't let
that happen.
Marcus...
I'm afraid.
Try harder.
He knows.
Marcus.
You've taken
the chip.
Put him on the cross.
Abby...
Abby.
Abby, wait!
Uh! Abby!
Uh! Oh! Abby.
This is madness.
Please.
Uh! Oh! Don't.
Oh...Abby,
this is madness!
- This is unity.
- Abby, please--
- take the key.
- Please...Wake up.
Just tell us where Clarke
and the others are hiding.
I can't do that.
I--
Yaah!
Gaah!
Aah! Ohh...
Agh!
Agh! Aah! Aah!
Aah! Aah!
Aah!
Let me guess, you
came here to fix things,
Wanheda
the peacemaker.
I came to see
if you're OK.
Well, I don't
need your help.
Clarke,
I've lost her.
Give her time,
Bellamy.
There may be
blood on your hands,
but it's
not Lincoln's.
Some of it is.
Maybe, but you
didn't want
that to happen.
You tried
to stop it.
Octavia will forgive
you eventually.
The question is,
will you
forgive yourself?
Forgiveness
is hard for us.
I was so angry at you
for leaving.
I don't want to feel
that way anymore.
You know, you're
not the only one
trying to
forgive yourself.
Maybe we'll
get that someday...
But we need
each other, Bellamy.
What we're
doing now,
the only way we're
gonna pull this off
is together.
Huh! Uh!
Uh! Uh!
Mmph mmph!
No. No. It's OK.
Uh! Oh!
Skaikru,
bringers of death.
Why should we give you
safe passage?
Lincoln.
He sent us.
- What's going on?
- I don't know.
What is that?
Safe passage.
What does it do?
Octavia, wait.
I trust Lincoln.
If only she drinks,
only she goes.
See you
on the other side.
O.
Oh, crap.
Oh, God...
Last chance.
Together.
I'm sorry to hear
about your son's arrest.
Will he be in
my class today?
No. We're
keeping Wells
in solitary until
launch tomorrow.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
You don't want him
telling the others
that the ark
is dying.
Charles--
it's the only thing
that makes sense.
Why else would
you send kids,
and not scientists?
Do you even care
if they live or die?
We are talking
about my son.
Yes. Then send me
with them.
Out of the question.
What you
teach them will--
well, I've taught
them nothing!
They don't care,
so they don't learn.
They don't pay attention
because they don't think
they have a reason to.
Let me tell them we're
sending them down,
and maybe if they're
afraid, then--
no. No.
Please.
I've only got one more
class to reach them.
Then figure out
a way to reach them
because you
are all they've got.
Ha ha!
All right. Can we just
get out of here, seriously?
You got better things
to do, Murphy?
Oh, it that
an offer, McIntyre?
You're an epic
dick, Murphy.
Everybody take
your seats. Now!
I'm sure all of you
will be glad to know
that we are officially done
talking about earth skills.
Oh, great.
In that case--
sit down.
How would you feel
about assisting me
with today's lesson,
Mr. Murphy?
Sign me up.
What the hell
was that fo--
- oh!
- Oh! Oh, jeez.
I know all about
you, John Murphy.
- Ah, you do, huh?
- Yeah. I do.
Mother drank
herself to death
after father
was floated
for stealing medicine
to save you.
That's a tough
row to hoe.
I'll give you that.
So what does he do
with the second chance
his father gave his life
to buy for him?
Wasted it
setting the
arresting officer's
quarters on fire.
Say something.
Uh!
Do something.
You know, I get it--
trying to teach us
to fight back.
- Wrong.
- Hey! Hey!
Uh! Uh!
- Stop it!
- Uhh!
- Oh!
- Leave him alone!
No one is coming
to help you.
No one is coming to help
any of you.
Uh! Uh!
Get off him!
Is that all you got?
It's gonna take
more than the kids
from your own
station to save you.
- Who will save you?
- Open the door! Help!
Override.
Don't you see?
This is life or death.
Uh!
Open the door! Help!
Hey!
- Charles, you all right?
- Fine.
Are you out of your minds?
What the hell is this?
This is
graduation.
Congratulations.
Class dismissed.
Nngh! Aah!
Agh! Ah!
You can't break me,
grounder. Aah!
If you want her to stop, maybe
you should try shutting up.
Only one way
this stops.
Nngh!
What is wrong
with you people?
He's strong.
We need him if we're gonna
fight our way out of here.
- Listen to me!
- Agh! Nngh!
Our real enemy
is out there.
Jaha has an army
of chipped soldiers.
They don't feel any pain.
That means they're not
gonna stop until all of us
either join them
or die.
Don't waste
your breath, kid.
Ask yourself this.
Do you want your
revenge,
or you want
your people to live?
Both.
I'll get my revenge,
just not today.
Go float yourself.
Everything I learned,
I learned on the ground.
Mm...
T minus
5 minutes and counting.
♪♪ I'm waking up
to ash and dust ♪♪
♪♪ I wipe my brow,
and I sweat my rust ♪♪
♪♪ Breathing
in the chemicals ♪♪
♪♪Hmm hmm ♪♪
♪♪ I'm breaking in, shaping up ♪♪
♪♪ Then checking out
on the prison bus ♪♪
Have you seen Monty?
Is he already on board?
♪♪ this is it ♪♪
Move it.
♪♪ the apocalypse ♪♪
Wait.
♪♪ I'm waking up ♪♪
♪♪ I feel it in my bones ♪♪
♪♪ And to make my systems blow ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome to the new age ♪♪
What are we doing?
♪♪ to the new age ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome to the new age ♪♪
♪♪Oh, whoa, oh, whoa ♪♪
♪♪ I'm radioactive, radioactive ♪♪
♪♪ Oh, whoa, oh, whoa ♪♪
Abby, it's time.
♪♪ radioactive, mm ♪♪
May we meet
again.
♪♪ mm mm mm ♪♪
♪♪ Mm mm ♪♪
♪♪ Mm mm mm mm mm mm ♪♪
♪♪ I raise my flags,
I don my clothes ♪♪
♪♪ Now it's a revolution,
I suppose ♪♪
♪♪ We're painted red
to fit right in ♪♪
Let's go.
♪♪ whoa ♪♪
♪♪ I'm breaking in ♪♪
I'm sorry, Abby.
♪♪ I'm shaping up ♪♪
♪♪ Then checking out
on the prison bus ♪♪
♪♪ This is it ♪♪
You got
your extra year.
♪♪ whoa, I'm waking up,
I feel it in my bones ♪♪
♪♪ Enough to make
my systems blow ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome to the new age,
to the new age ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome
to the new age, to the new age ♪♪
Marcus,
let me stop the pain.
He's strong.
Yes,
always has been.
Marcus, I'm afraid
we're out of time.
We need to know
where the resistance
you led against
pike hides.
Just shoot me.
Shoot me.
If I shoot you,
I won't get the answer.
Oh...Oh...Oh...
Wait.
You can stop this.
All right.
I'll do it.
Take the key.
♪♪ deep in my bones ♪♪
♪♪Straight from inside ♪♪
♪♪ Oh, I'm waking up ♪♪
♪♪I feel it in my bones ♪♪
♪♪ Enough make my systems blow ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome to the new age,
to the new age ♪♪
♪♪ Welcome
to the new age, to the new age ♪♪
♪♪ I'm radioactive, radioactive ♪♪
Uh...
Where the hell are we?
Oh...
My sword's gone.
Guns, too.
Luna.
Where's Lincoln?
Lincoln is dead.
Lincoln said that
you would help us.
Did he?
Luna, you're the
last of your kind,
the last nightblood.
So Lexa's dead,
as well.
Her spirit has
chosen you to become
the next commander.
Titus entrusted me
with the flame
to give to you.
Then he should have
told you that I left
my conclave swearing
to never kill again.
You don't
have to kill.
To lead is
your birthright.
How you lead
is your choice.
Here.
I recognize
the sacred symbol,
but what is that?
This is the flame
that holds the spirits
of the commanders,
of Lexa.
Will you take it
and become
the next commander?
No.
Hey, wait.